README.md, before:

# chafa-rust (wip)

Rust bindings for [chafa](https://github.com/hpjansson/chafa), a terminal graphics library:

> With chafa, you can now view very, very reasonable approximations of pictures and animations in the comfort of your favorite terminal emulator. The power of ANSI X3.64 compels you!

## Demo

Using the chafa API: `examples/demo.rs`

```rust
use chafa::{Canvas, Config, PixelType, SymbolMap, Symbols};

fn main() {
    // see https://hpjansson.org/chafa/ref/chafa-using.html
 
    const PIX_WIDTH : i32 = 3;
    const PIX_HEIGHT : i32 = 3;
    const N_CHANNELS : i32 = 4;
    let pixels : [u8; (PIX_WIDTH * PIX_HEIGHT * N_CHANNELS) as usize] = [
        0xff, 0x00, 0x00, 0xff, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0xff, 0xff, 0x00, 0x00, 0xff,
        0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0xff, 0xff, 0x00, 0x00, 0xff, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0xff,
        0xff, 0x00, 0x00, 0xff, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0xff, 0xff, 0x00, 0x00, 0xff
    ];

    let symbol_map = SymbolMap::new();
    symbol_map.add_by_tags(Symbols::ALL);

    let config = Config::new();
    config.set_geometry(23, 12);
    config.set_symbol_map(symbol_map);

    let canvas = Canvas::new(config);

    canvas.draw_all_pixels(PixelType::RGBA8_UNASSOCIATED,
                           &pixels,
                           PIX_WIDTH,
                           PIX_HEIGHT,
                           PIX_WIDTH * N_CHANNELS);

    let output : String = canvas.build_ansi();

    println!("{}", output);
}

```

Or using a convenience function: `examples/image2ansi.rs`

```rust
use chafa::extra::image2ansi;

fn main() {
    let output = image2ansi("examples/test.png", (33, 16)).unwrap();
    println!("{}", output);
}
```

| Before                                       | After                                                               |
|----------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ![original flowery image](examples/test.png) | ![flowery image displayed in terminal](examples/output_capture.png) |

## Docs

See the [chafa C API](https://hpjansson.org/chafa/ref/index.html).

## Usage

Install `chafa` with its dependency [`glib`](https://docs.gtk.org/glib/), either from your package manager or from source.
Then put this crate in your Rust project.

Typical usage:

```toml
[dependencies]
chafa = { features = ["link-dynamic"] }
``` 

<!-- for an example of a rust project using chafa, see [vic]. -->

### 1) Give library locations if necessary

By default, [pkg-config](https://people.freedesktop.org/~dbn/pkg-config-guide.html) tries to find `chafa` and its dependencies.
If libraries are not found, you can provide library names and directories with `$RUSTFLAGS`.

Example: `RUSTFLAGS="-L /usr/lib -l chafa -l glib" cargo build`

This may be useful when:

- libraries are located at non-standard locations
- libraries are not built with pkg-config metadata
- building in environments with unique linking needs, like when compiling with musl libc
- building on Windows? or environments that do not support pkg-config

<!-- metion .a or .so files? -->

### 2) Choose dynamic or static linking

This crate has two cargo build features: `["link-dynamic"]` or `["link-static"]`.
You must choose one.

Static builds have been trickier in my experience, mainly due to `glib` compilation errors.
I was able to make a statically linked build in an Alpine [Dockerfile].
Other people have statically linked `chafa` & `glib` in other environments -- see [vic issue #1](https://github.com/wong-justin/vic/issues/1) to explore those options.

## This crate does not:

- build `chafa` or `glib` from source (yet).
- test builds on Windows or macOS (yet).

If you need those things, I recommend modifying `chafa-sys/build.rs` or writing your own containerized build script.
If you can vendor `chafa` and `glib` and build them from source in `chafa-sys/build.rs`, or if you have changes that make the build work on Windows or macOS, or if you have usability suggestions in general, your contribution would be appreciated.

## Licenses

`chafa` uses LGPL-3.0-or-later.

`glib` uses LGPL-2.1-or-later.

Commit message:

docs: update status in readme

README.md, after:

# chafa-rust (wip)

Rust bindings for [chafa](https://github.com/hpjansson/chafa), a terminal graphics library:

> With chafa, you can now view very, very reasonable approximations of pictures and animations in the comfort of your favorite terminal emulator. The power of ANSI X3.64 compels you!

## Demo

Using the chafa API: `examples/demo.rs`

```rust
use chafa::{Canvas, Config, PixelType, SymbolMap, Symbols};

fn main() {
    // see https://hpjansson.org/chafa/ref/chafa-using.html
 
    const PIX_WIDTH : i32 = 3;
    const PIX_HEIGHT : i32 = 3;
    const N_CHANNELS : i32 = 4;
    let pixels : [u8; (PIX_WIDTH * PIX_HEIGHT * N_CHANNELS) as usize] = [
        0xff, 0x00, 0x00, 0xff, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0xff, 0xff, 0x00, 0x00, 0xff,
        0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0xff, 0xff, 0x00, 0x00, 0xff, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0xff,
        0xff, 0x00, 0x00, 0xff, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0xff, 0xff, 0x00, 0x00, 0xff
    ];

    let symbol_map = SymbolMap::new();
    symbol_map.add_by_tags(Symbols::ALL);

    let config = Config::new();
    config.set_geometry(23, 12);
    config.set_symbol_map(symbol_map);

    let canvas = Canvas::new(config);

    canvas.draw_all_pixels(PixelType::RGBA8_UNASSOCIATED,
                           &pixels,
                           PIX_WIDTH,
                           PIX_HEIGHT,
                           PIX_WIDTH * N_CHANNELS);

    let output : String = canvas.build_ansi();

    println!("{}", output);
}
```

Or using a convenience function: `examples/image2ansi.rs`

```rust
use chafa::extra::image2ansi;

fn main() {
    let output = image2ansi("examples/test.png", (33, 16)).unwrap();
    println!("{}", output);
}
```

| Before                                       | After                                                               |
|----------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ![original flowery image](examples/test.png) | ![flowery image displayed in terminal](examples/output_capture.png) |

## Docs

See the [chafa C API](https://hpjansson.org/chafa/ref/index.html).

## Usage

Install `chafa` with its dependency [`glib`](https://docs.gtk.org/glib/), either from your package manager or from source.
Then put this crate in your Rust project.

Typical usage:

```toml
[dependencies]
chafa = { features = ["link-dynamic"] }
``` 

<!-- for an example of a rust project using chafa, see [vic]. -->

### 1) Give library locations if necessary

By default, [pkg-config](https://people.freedesktop.org/~dbn/pkg-config-guide.html) tries to find `chafa` and its dependencies.
If libraries are not found, you can provide library names and directories with `$RUSTFLAGS`.

Example: `RUSTFLAGS="-L /usr/lib -l chafa -l glib" cargo build`

This may be useful when:

- libraries are located at non-standard locations
- libraries are not built with pkg-config metadata
- building in environments with unique linking needs, like when compiling with musl libc
- building on Windows? or environments that do not support pkg-config

<!-- metion .a or .so files? -->

### 2) Choose dynamic or static linking

This crate has two cargo build features: `["link-dynamic"]` or `["link-static"]`.
You must choose one.

Static builds have been trickier in my experience, mainly due to `glib` compilation errors.
I was able to make a statically linked build in an Alpine [Dockerfile](https://github.com/wong-justin/vic/blob/main/Dockerfile).
Other people have statically linked `chafa` & `glib` in other environments -- see [vic issue #1](https://github.com/wong-justin/vic/issues/1) to explore those options.

### Extra

You can enable the optional `["image"]` feature to access `chafa::extra::image2ansi`, which might be useful for casual usage.

## Status

This crate does not:

- build `chafa` or `glib` from source (yet).
- test builds on Windows or macOS (yet).

If you need those things, I recommend modifying `chafa-sys/build.rs` or writing your own containerized build script.
If you can vendor `chafa` and `glib` and build them from source in `chafa-sys/build.rs`, or if you have changes that make the build work on Windows or macOS, or if you have usability suggestions in general, your contribution would be appreciated.

`src/lib.rs` currently covers a minimal but usable amount of chafa functions.
Parity with [chafa's Python bindings](https://github.com/GuardKenzie/chafa.py) is a stretch goal.

## Licenses

`chafa` uses LGPL-3.0-or-later.

`glib` uses LGPL-2.1-or-later.
